[DOCS] Install prototype (#3855)
percona/pmm: documentation/docs/install-pmm/install-pmm-client/connect-database/postgresql.md

       ```

=== "Amazon RDS/Aurora PostgreSQL"
    For RDS instances where SUPERUSER cannot be assigned directly:
    {.power-number}
    
    1. Create the user:
    
       ```sql
       CREATE USER pmm WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'strong_password';
       ```
    
    2. Grant the `rds_superuser`role:
    
       ```sql
       GRANT rds_superuser TO pmm;
       ```
    
    3. Optionally, set a connection limit (only if the user is not a SUPERUSER):
    
       ```sql
       ALTER USER pmm CONNECTION LIMIT 10;
       ```

### Configure authentication

After creating the database user, complete the configuration:
{.power-number}

1. Reload the PostgreSQL configuration:

```sh
su - postgres
psql -c "select pg_reload_conf()"
```

2. Verify the PMM user can connect locally:
``` sh
psql postgres pmm -c "\conninfo"
```

3. Enter the password for the pmm user when prompted:

## Choose a monitoring extension

### PostgreSQL monitoring extensions comparison
Decide which database extension to use, and configure your database server for it. 

Choose:
- [`pg_stat_statements`](#pg_stat_statements) when you need a lightweight, built-in solution with minimal overhead

> - [`pg_stat_monitor`](#pg_stat_monitor) when you need comprehensive monitoring capabilities with more detailed insights into query performance:

Reviewer: please check formatting on the preview

> | Aspect | **pg_stat_statements** | **pg_stat_monitor** |

Reviewer: I would put pg_stat_monitor first as it's our solution

| **Key features** | ✔ Basic query statistics<br>✔ Simple aggregation<br>✔ Minimal overhead<br>✔ Query timing and execution counts | ✔ Enhanced metrics collection<br>✔ Bucket-based aggregation<br>✔ Query examples<br>✔ Histogram data<br>✔ Includes all pg_stat_statements features |
| **Best for** | ✔ Development environments<br>✔ Simple monitoring needs<br>✔ Resource-constrained servers | ✔ Production environments<br>✔ Detailed query analysis<br>✔ Performance tuning |
| **Installation complexity** | ⚠ Low | ⚠ Medium |
| **Benefits** | • Part of official PostgreSQL<br>• Minimal overhead<br>• Simple to set up and use | • Builds on pg_stat_statements features<br>• Bucket-based time-series analysis<br>• Query examples for troubleshooting<br>• More accurate performance data |
| **Drawbacks** | • No aggregated statistics or histograms<br>• No Query Examples<br>• Limited metrics collection | • Slightly higher resource overhead<br>• Requires separate installation<br>• More complex configuration |

For a more detailed comparison of extensions, see the [pg_stat_monitor documentation](https://docs.percona.com/pg-stat-monitor/user_guide.html).

> ### Configure `pg_stat_statements`

Reviewer: pg_stat_statements vs pg_stat_monitor is a good candidate for tabs

Reviewer: I would put pg_stat_monitor first here as well

You can now [add the service](#add-service).

### Configure `pg_stat_monitor`

#### Compatible versions 

`pg_stat_monitor` has been tested with:

- PostgreSQL versions 11, 12, 13, 14, 15
- Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL versions 11, 12, 13, 14, 15

#### Installation

- With Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL: Install via your Linux package manager. See [Installing Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL][PERCONA_POSTGRESQL_INSTALL].
- With standard PostgreSQL: Download and compile from source code. See [Installing `pg_stat_monitor`][PG_STAT_MONITOR_INSTALL].

#### Configuration

To configure `pg_stat_monitor`effectively:
{.power-number}

1. Add pg_stat_monitor to `shared_preload_library` in `postgresql.conf` file:

    ```ini
    shared_preload_libraries = 'pg_stat_monitor'
    ```

    If you use both `pg_stat_statements` and `pg_stat_monitor` list `pg_stat_statements` first:

        ```ini
        shared_preload_libraries = 'pg_stat_statements, pg_stat_monitor'
        ```

2. Configure query tracking parameters in your `postgresql.conf` file:
    ```ini
    pg_stat_monitor.pgsm_query_max_len = 2048
    ```

    !!! caution "Parameter effects"

>         It is important to set maximal length of query to 2048 characters or more for PMM to work properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        It is important to set maximal length of query to 2048 characters or more for QAN to provide correct information about query.
```

    You can configure additional parameters to enhance monitoring capabilities:
    
    ```ini
    # Replace query values with placeholders (recommended)
    pg_stat_monitor.pgsm_normalized_query = 1
    
    # Enable query plan capture

>     pg_stat_monitor.pgsm_enable_query_plan = 1

Reviewer: let's remove it or mention that it's not working properly at the moment

    ```

    If the value for `pg_stat_monitor.pgsm_normalized_query` is set to 1, the actual query values are replaced by placeholders. If the value is 0, the examples are given in QAN. Examples can be found in QAN details tab example.
    
    If `pg_stat_monitor.pgsm_enable_query_plan` is enabled, the query plans are captured and will be available in the `Plan` tab on the Query Analytics dashboard.

    !!! tip "Additional settings"
        View all available settings with:
        ```sql
        SELECT * FROM pg_stat_monitor_settings;
        ```
        
    For complete parameter documentation, see the [`pg_stat_monitor` online documentation](https://docs.percona.com/pg-stat-monitor/configuration.html).

3. Restart your PostgreSQL instance to activate the extension.

4. Create the extension in a psql session to create the necessary views that allow you to access the collected statistics:

    ```sql
    psql -d postgres -c "CREATE EXTENSION pg_stat_monitor;"

>      ```

Reviewer: it looks incorrect on the preview

5. Verify the extension installation:

    ```sql
    SELECT pg_stat_monitor_version();
    ```

### Bucket-based data aggregation in `pg_stat_monitor`

`pg_stat_monitor` collects and aggregates PostgreSQL statistics using a data structure called a bucket. Multiple buckets are linked together to form a bucket chain.

Each bucket:

- collects data for a specific time period
- has a defined memory allocation
- stores aggregated statistics until expiration or overflow

#### Bucket lifecycle

When a bucket's expiration time is reached, accumulated statistics are reset and data is stored in the next available bucket in the chain.

When all buckets in the chain have been used, the first bucket is reused and its contents are overwritten.

If a bucket fills before its expiration time is reached, data is discarded.

## Add service to PMM

After configuring your database server with the appropriate extension, you need to add it as a service to PMM. You can do this either through the PMM user interface or via the command line.

> === "Using the PMM user interface"

Reviewer: Something went wrong here as well. CLI and UI presented as completely separate tab items
